Codey: Hello, farmers, and welcome to another episode of the harvest season.
Codey: My name is Cody.
Al: My name is Al.
Codey: And we're here today to talk about bugs.
Codey: Woo!
Al: Woo, bugs, bugs, bugs, bugs, bugs, bugs, bugs.
Codey: Bugs, books, books.
Codey: So every summer Al goes on this vacation slash thing that you do.
Codey: Um, and we have a themed month that we kind of record um, haphazardly around like the time.
Codey: So we're not, it's not like in time, like where we are going to have news that we can talk about or something like that.
Codey: So we usually also try to have a theme with these things and I have joked that we should do bug month because new listeners may not know this, but I am an entomologist.
Codey: Um, I study bugs.
Codey: I talk about bugs a lot.
Codey: And so, and there are also a good amount of bug games.
Codey: So for Bug Month, this year, we will be covering 4 different bug games.
Codey: This episode, Al and I will be talking about Kabuto Park.
Codey: Um, which is a cute little game.
Codey: I enjoyed it.
Codey: Um, But we don't have the news.
Codey: So instead of news, we're going to have my entomology corner where I talk about entomology things for, however long, that goes.
Codey: Um, but before that, Al, uh, what have you been up to?
Al: What have I been up to?
Al: Yes, so, uh, obviously, we're not going to talk about like games and stuff because this is out of time, so things will be confusing if we've talk if we're talking about things on different episodes.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: So I was suggesting we talk about something we've seen recently.
Al: I'll tell you what I've seen recently that I would like to talk about, and that is Supergirl.
Codey: Okay.
Codey: I'm excited to hear your opinion of it.
Al: Yeah, um so I presume you've not seen it?
Codey: No, so I'm not super into, uh, here, superheroes and specifically Superman.
Codey: Um, I don't know why.
Codey: And so I am interested here, because I know that the director did something a little different with this one, I think I've heard, right?
Codey: Okay, nope.
Codey: Okay, so a superhero movie?
Al: Well, yeah, no, okay, right.
Al: So I think I, there's, there's different, um, opinions are mixed.
Al: Which, I, you know, okay, so I think it's important to note that I do not think the all criticism of this film is misogynist.
Al: It's not.
Al: There are, I get some of the some of the criticism that some people are saying.
Al: In particular, the thing I do agree with most people on is that the film is quite kind of dull and gray and not particularly colourful, which is particularly frustrating considering the comic book series that this was based on was a very vibrant one.
Al: So I do get that.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: I understand that, and I agree with that.
Al: I would have been nicer for it to be more viable.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: Some people not really vibing with how the story works and stuff like that.
Al: That's fair.
Al: I personally really liked it.
Al: I thought it was a really good film.
Al: I liked what they did with the story.
Al: I liked the characters.
Al: I think Millie Alcock as Supergirl is really good.
Codey: Mm.
Al: I think it's kind of nicely kind of building on the universe a bit, right?
Al: I enjoyed Superman last year.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: I thought it was nice to have like a hopeful film for once.
Al: And I think this does a similar sort of thing while not trying to be exactly the same because obviously the thing about Supergirl is that she is, she grew up, well, in the comic books, she grew up on Krypton and it is complicated stuff, but in this film, it's not quite the same.
Codey: Okay.
Al: She grows up in Argo City after Krypton has been destroyed, but the point is she still grows up through with Krypton culture, knowing people knowing her family and then seeing everyone die as she goes away to Earth, which is not something that Clark has to do.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: He is a baby when he lands on earth.
Al: So he doesn't know that.
Al: He doesn't experience that.
Al: Not to say that that can't be grief in of itself, but it's different, right?
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: Yes.
Al: And so she's never going to be exactly the same.
Al: She's always going to have different struggles, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Al: But I think they did a really good job of still trying to be hopeful even with that difficulty and kind of showing you how she becomes Supergirl and accepts that kind of status, if you will.
Al: I think they did that really nicely.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: It's not like she's completely gone, oh, I'm fine now.
Al: You know, you know, but still, I think they did a really good job of that.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: So I really enjoyed it.
Al: and I look forward to watching it again.
Al: I think it's going to be interesting because so Rona watches most superhero stuff with me now.
Al: I've made her watch almost all the DC and Marvel stuff.
Al: And so she really liked the CW Supergirl show.
Codey: Okay.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: But the thing about that one is that Supergirl is basically just Superman, right?
Codey: Yeah.
Al: Like, yeah, she has the same backstory, but she doesn't have any of the complications that come with that.
Al: So it's like her personality is basically just Superman, which is fine for what it was.
Al: And I really like that interpretation as well.
Al: It's just it's different.
Al: So I was a little bit like, ooh, is Ron actually going to like this version of Supergirl?
Al: Because like, you know, she gets drunk and she's angry and blah, blah, blah.
Al: But actually, I think the way that it's done.
Al: I think she's going to really like what they do with her.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: Um, so I'm really uh, excited to see, um, what she thinks of that when we watch it.
Al: And as always with these things, I'm, you know, looking at them going, oh, I'll look forward to showing that to Craig in 4 years time.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: Or whatever.
Al: So yeah, I think I, as I, as I was saying, I understand some of the criticisms, I do think that some of the criticisms are misogynistic.
Al: Like I saw, um, I saw a, someone trying to, it was perfect.
Al: Let me read you the exact wording of this at the top of this review because it's so stupid.
Codey: Okay.
Al: So it starts off with Supergirl's failure, like every other female led movie failure will be blamed on misogyny, but I am here to tell you the real reason female led movies don't succeed at the box office because they're made with the idea that the movie is not for men.
Al: They go far as to uglify the female lead so she doesn't appeal to the male gaze.
Al: Now, can we can we eat?
Al: There's so many things to talk about here.
Al: First of all, I love the fact of being like, oh, we're not misogynist and then immediately be misogynist.
Al: Right?
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: Like, oh, it's a it's because she's ugly.
Al: That's misogynistic.
Al: are you doing?
Codey: Yep.
Al: Two.
Al: Um, no, she's not.
Al: What are you talking about?
Codey: Yeah.
Al: Are we looking at the same person?
Al: What, what?
Codey: Yeah.
Al: I sent this review to Ronan, she was like, is she ugly?
Codey: That.
Al: And I'm like, no, what?
Codey: No.
Al: Three, even if she was, so what?
Al: Do you have to be attracted to someone to care about them?
Al: That's what that tells me about you and I'm really worried about you as a human being.
Codey: Yep.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: That like a story would not be interesting if the person, like any story is not interesting if the person is not attractive.
Codey: That's like, ooh, big yikes.
Al: Yes.
Al: So yeah, I do think there are, as with always, uh, you know, people who are being misogynistic about it.
Al: I don't think everyone is.
Al: There are, you know, quite a lot of, uh, film reviewers that I follow who I understand what they're saying.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: I don't get it fully.
Al: I don't know why they, I'm not really understanding what it is they don't like about the film other than the like visual direction, which I totally get.
Al: Um, but I'm not saying they're wrong about that.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: They're just like, I disagree.
Al: I don't I don't really get their their point there, but that's, you know, different things are not everyone, not everything's going to click with everyone.
Al: And I'm a little bit sad that people haven't enjoyed this as much, but I think I very much enjoy it.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: And most of the people who I respect have been saying, I don't like it.
Al: A few of them have been saying it's bad.
Al: That's a whole other conversation, but they all say try it anyway because you might like it, right?
Codey: Yeah.
Al: And I think that is the key difference. I think if you're if you're reading someone's review and they say, it's not for me, they're probably not being misogynistic, right?
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: Because they're probably like, I didn't like it, but that's fine.
Al: Whereas the people who are being misogynistic, they'll all be like, it's terrible.
Al: Don't go see it.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: There's very few films that I will say are actively bad and that people shouldn't go see.
Al: I actually quite like enjoying bad films sometimes.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: You just have to, it's good to go into it informed sometimes if it is something that is probably going to be bad because you might be in a mood of like, I want to watch good, good cinematography today and it's like, mm, probably shouldn't watch this movie then.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: Um, but yeah, that that kind of attitude is just like...
Al: We, we have to get this every single time.
Al: I don't think that all of the problems with female led movies are because of misogyny.
Al: Absolutely not.
Codey: Right.
Al: Captain Marvel made a $1000000000, right?
Al: Like, it's not as simple as saying people are misogynistic and therefore they don't succeed.
Codey: Right.
Al: They can, and they have.
Al: But it is just, it is another one of those things where it's like when you have conversations about bigotry.
Al: People love to like flatten it down into, oh, well, this thing is successful, therefore there's no bigotry and you're like, but that's not how that works, right?
Codey: Nope.
Al: Like, you, you, you know, Barack Obama becoming president and people going, oh, there's no racism anymore.
Al: It's like, no, that's no, like people were and are racist towards Obama, that was something he had to overcome.
Al: And isn't it amazing that he got to that and we don't need to talk about, whether he was good or bad at the job.
Codey: Right.
Al: That is not the point.
Al: But like he managed to overcome those things and still do it and isn't that incredible?
Al: And I would say the same thing about something like Captain Marvel.
Al: This film, Supergirl's not going to do well, sadly.
Al: But I think it is good personally, and I think that lots of people will enjoy it having watched it.
Al: And so that is my thing.
Al: And I really hope my biggest worry is that they go, oh, well, people don't really care about Supergirl and then they just kind of like write the character out of future stories, which I think would be really sad.
Al: I think the part of the problem with superhero films just now is that the 1st superhero films in franchises don't tend to do particularly well, it's when you continue doing them and you continue making good films and you make more of them, then they, like the 1st Iron Man,
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: I mean, it was fine, but it didn't make a lot of money, right?
Codey: Yeah.
Al: Like they weren't making lots and lots of money until they did later.
Al: until they had, you know, multiple sequels, right?
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: I ironed it out, yeah.
Al: Like, only one, only one of the Marvel films made over 2 billion.
Al: Now, a lot of made them made over a billion, but that wasn't like none of them in the 1st phase did until the Avengers, I don't think.
Al: So obviously you could, you know, there's diminishing returns, now they're getting less and less, but you could argue that's because they're worse, right?
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: So like the idea that like Superman and Supergirl were going to make a $1000000000 was always ridiculous idea because like people need to be convinced of something.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: Yeah, I, we were just talking about this the other day about how it's also, there's also kind of like superhero fatigue that any movie that is quote unquote worth seeing in theatre nowadays, like to us, it seems like to my husband and I,
Codey: It seems like it's usually one of the Marvel movies.
Codey: Um, with some exceptions being like some of the horror movies that have been coming out recently that have been apparently very good in the theatre.
Codey: Um, which takes me on another tangent of people kind of saying the same thing.
Codey: Like I saw a news article of, you know, people, they really shouldn't be making so many horror movies.
Codey: A lot of us don't like horror.
Al: Hmm.
Codey: Like it's, it's, uh, insulting to us that we have to see like so many of these horror movies, like in the mainstream.
Codey: And I'm like, again, not everything has to be for you.
Codey: Like, you can, you are allowed to say, oh, that was good, not for me though.
Codey: and everyone should go and make their own decision.
Codey: Um, but yeah, the, the other stuff that's been in theatres lately is just, I, there's not like the drive to the theatre that I feel like there was 20 years ago.
Codey: Um, it's also way more expensive because of course it is.
Codey: But, like, we had really big series like 20 years ago that were coming out and were being made.
Codey: And so every few years you knew that you were going to go into the theatre.
Codey: And I feel like the majority of the series that are being made today are superhero.
Codey: So if you're not into superheroes, Trug, you know?
Al: Yeah, okay, so there's a lot in that, right?
Codey: Yeah, correct.
Al: Um, I think that there are many things you could argue about um, why people don't go to the cinemas as much.
Al: I think the 1st thing to say is it's not that they're not going to the cinema.
Al: They are going to the cinema and the cinema still makes a lot of money.
Al: Now, granted, the total amount of money, the box office makes per year is down on 2019 and the 10 years before that, roughly, um, because obviously COVID massive problem.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: But I don't think it's as simple as any, as saying it's because of COVID or it's because of bad films or anything like that.
Al: Because like generally it's been going up since COVID as well.
Al: It's not hit the same levels that it had, but it's not far off.
Al: So if I take the number in 2025 and I take the number in 2019, uh, the 2025 number was 76% of the 2019 number.
Al: So there's a 25% gap there.
Al: I'm not saying that's nothing.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: That is obviously a lot of money, but in terms of like, I think the way that people talk about it makes it sound way worse than that, right?
Codey: Right.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: And I mean, for myself, I think it's the there haven't been movies that have been appealing to me.
Codey: So, and I think that that is, because another thing that's been coming out a lot are live action remakes of Disney movies, which I'm not interested in.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Yeah, but they make a lot of money.
Codey: So.
Codey: Yeah, I'm sure, well, and they're going to make,
Al: Right?
Al: This is this is the this is the thing, because we're going to talk
Codey: yeah.
Al: talk about Disney and Pixar as well, because like generally kids or family films make a lot of money.
Al: Right?
Codey: Yes.
Al: Like the thing, if you look at the, like the top 20 films or so.
Al: Half of them are superhero films.
Al: Half of them are kids' films, and then there's Avatar for some reason.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: Which is confusing.
Al: Um, I will never understand why that makes so much money.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: Um, but, again, not for me, that's fine.
Al: I say that.
Al: I actually enjoyed the 3rd one.
Al: The 1st one was fine.
Codey: Oh, you did you?
Al: The 2nd one was boring.
Al: The 3rd one was, I think, the best of the Avatar films.
Al: Um, I mean, that's not a high bar, but... I think I think is the best one.
Codey: Okay.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: But yeah, I just, I find these, and it's, it's, there's so many reasons why, you know, 2025 made 75% of 2019.
Al: But also like, that's still a lot of money.
Al: Right?
Codey: Yeah.
Al: Like, We do live in this world where everything has to be increasing all the time forever.
Al: And, well, yeah, that's the thing.
Codey: Has to be?
Al: It's a bizarre idea, but that is what, for some reason, capitalism has to have.
Al: And so even if it was making as much as it did in 29, that wouldn't be enough.
Al: It's got to be more.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: And so yeah, I think it's a whole bunch of things.
Al: I think the part of the thing is that people we might be moving into a period of fewer people wanting to watch superhero films, possibly.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: I'm not going to say anything until next year because I think part of the thing is this year is going to, if this year isn't the big year for superhero films.
Al: I don't know what year is because we've got Spider-Man and we've got Avengers.
Al: If Spider-Man and Avengers don't make over a billion, then yeah, sure, Marvel's really got to change something fundamentally.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: Um, but I suspect they will.
Al: I suspect they'll make a lot of money.
Codey: No, I'm sure, I'm sure those will, but like, there's so many other little offshoot, like,
Al: But they never made a lot of money.
Al: That's the thing.
Codey: The the offshoot movies.
Al: Yeah, that like, you know, it's not like every Marvel movie or every superhero movie made a $1000000000
Codey: No, but I still thought that they made good money.
Al: Some of them did, some of them didn't.
Al: Like, it's, I think this is the thing is like, we have this viewpoint of like, oh,
Al: everything makes a lot of money.
Al: There are only 16 superhero films ever that have made over a 1000000000 dollars.
Al: 16.
Codey: Mhm.
Al: Yeah, a lot of them are Marvel ones, but not all of them.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: And there are a lot of films that haven't made anywhere near that.
Al: So, like, it's a complicated story, right?
Codey: Yeah.
Al: Like there's not, it's not a simple answer.
Codey: Yep.
Al: Um, but, like, you know, let's take, for example, Doctor Strange came out in 2016.
Al: So after 4 years after the original Avengers, um, and it made 600 million.
Al: Now, you may be like, oh, that's a lot of money.
Al: It depends who you ask.
Al: Well, that's a lot of money.
Codey: Well, it also, how much did it, how much did it take to make too?
Al: Oh, that is a complicated question.
Codey: So, because that's that's how I, so.
Al: It made a profit.
Al: It made a profit, but the problem is that making a profit is not enough for these people quite often.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: Because, like, these numbers, like a 1000000000 dollars.
Codey: Like that just doesn't, it doesn't resonate with me.
Codey: I'm like, okay, that's a number.
Codey: Like, I don't, I don't know.
Codey: I think it's more like the the vibe, like, of the fact, I don't know.
Codey: So that's I'm getting into feelings, not facts, so it's not.
Al: Yeah, well, that and that's and that I think is part of the problem, right?
Codey: Yeah.
Al: Part of the problem is that a lot of these things are discussed based on people's feelings.
Al: And when you actually start to look at the numbers, the picture is more complicated.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: Um, So, the, the, the MCU has made a total of 32000000000 dollars, which is an average of 870000000 per film.
Codey: Oh, yeah.
Al: But considering one of them is like the 2nd highest crossing film of all time and made nearly 3000000000,
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: That skews, that was Avengers Endgame.
Codey: Which one's that?
Codey: Okay, that's what I thought.
Al: That skews it massively.
Al: So...
Al: Uh, they have been going down.
Al: It's it's un undebatable.
Al: They have been going down.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: And part of that is because people don't like the films as much and part of that may well because people are being bored of these same stories.
Al: Part of it might be one of the other complications I see is that they start to introduce new characters.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: Those films don't do as well as the previous ones because they're new characters and people need to get used to them, but then they abandon those characters when they don't make the lots of money and they go back to the old characters, but people are like, we're done with those characters.
Al: And so it's like, actually, you need to keep working on the new characters so people actually care.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: I think my struggle with it is like, it's always, it's like usually the same.
Codey: It's the same story, different skin is my, it gets very formulaic after a while.
Codey: And I'm, I, yeah, it can't.
Al: It can be.
Al: Depends what you're watching, right?
Codey: Yeah, but.
Al: Like, have you seen Wonderman, for example?
Codey: No.
Al: Love that show.
Al: That show was excellent.
Al: The problem is no one's seen it.
Al: And yet, I'm not saying that this is people's fault, right?
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: Like, why was that made into a show rather than a film, which would probably have garnered more attention.
Al: I don't know, would it have worked as a film?
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: I don't know
Al: Possibly, I liked it.
Al: I thought it was a great series.
Al: I think it worked really well as a series.
Al: But the thing is that, yeah, sure.
Al: If you look at certain, if you watch like the big things, then yeah, everything's going to feel the same because the big things are all about.
Al: Here are all these characters that we like, fighting a baddie.
Al: Which is what this year's one is going to be.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: But if you watch everything,
Al: There's so many different stories.
Al: And yeah, I'm not saying that that's an excuse.
Al: I'm not saying it's your fault that you don't like them, right?
Codey: Right, right, right
Al: I'm just, it's one of these things where it's like, what, yes, if you, you know, quite often this gets compared to, say, the, um, the Westerns, right?
Al: Because there was a period of time where Westerns were like what superhero films are now.
Al: They're everywhere and people were fed up with them.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: And the thing is that, again, if you watched all them, you're probably like, oh, there are some that are great and there are some that have these amazing stories.
Al: But if you were fed up of the mediocre ones, you'd stop watching them because you feel like everything's the same if you just watched the like the ones by the big directors.
Al: They're mostly going to be formulaic because it's the big companies paying lots of money to please cash in on this. Whereas if you watch all of the things, you're going to find some that are great, but not everybody can do that.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: People don't have the time for that, right?
Al: Like I watch so many films.
Codey: There's well.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: People don't have the time for that, but it means I get to see really great stuff.
Al: It also means I watch really terrible stuff as well.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: Well, and so the other aspect of this is not is past films, like to the TV series and the mini shorts, and like you have to watch all of these things to be so that when you go watch the next Avengers movie, things make sense because...
Al: Yep.
Al: Yeah, but I don't think you do.
Codey: Oh, some of those Avengers movies, I was like, I don't get like why there's this tension here and someone was like, all you had to watch Scarlet Witch or whatever. And I'm like, okay, but I didn't. Or what, no, what was the?
Al: There was no Scarlet Witch thing, but anyway.
Al: I think I think the thing is that like, sometimes we just need to accept not knowing everything.
Codey: Yeah, what was.
Al: Like, because I think it's, it's, it's the same.
Codey: Yeah. I'm, I'm not good with that.
Al: It's the same thing where people complain about plot holes that aren't plot holes, they're just unexplained things, right?
Al: Like people will talk about, oh, there were so many plot holes in this.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: Why did this happen?
Al: How did that happen?
Al: It's like, no, no, them not explaining it is not a plot hole.
Al: Them not explaining it is not telling you everything because sometimes you don't need to know everything.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: And a plot hole is when they're explicitly contradicting the rules that they've set out, right?
Al: That a pothole.
Al: A plot hole is not, although you didn't explain why this person would do that.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: No, some people are stupid, make stupid decisions, and that's why we have films.
Al: If we didn't have people making stupid decisions.
Al: We would never have a horror film.
Al: Right? Like, that's that's an entire whole genre of people making stupid decisions.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: The genre isn't based on the idea of a plot hole.
Al: Yeah, I, like, I, I think I, I, it's ironic that it's James Gunn that's saying this, but I generally agree with what James Gunn said, is that I don't think there's superhero fatigue.
Al: I think there's mediocre movie fatigue.
Codey: Okay, yeah.
Al: And.
Codey: That would also, yes.
Al: And sometimes people feel a little bit talked down to when they're like, oh, that doesn't mean that I don't like superhero films.
Al: Okay, sure.
Al: Yeah, that's fine.
Al: But also, we're definitely going to see Spider-Man and the Avengers make a lot of money this year.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: So, maybe we want, maybe I'll be wrong, and if I'm wrong, then there's something else to it, but I highly doubt that they're not going to.
Codey: I have so much more I could say, but this was not the...
Codey: I could talk so much more about.
Codey: Uh, but we should probably...
Al: And the highest grossing film of last year was a Minecraft movie, so...
Codey: Oh, that is shocking to me, but kids, so maybe not.
Codey: I guess like what was the competition?
Al: Depends who you are.
Al: Like, so, oh, goodness, right.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: Give me a minute.
Al: Let me find the worldwide.
Al: There we go.
Al: Worldwide 2025.
Al: So the top 10.
Al: So Minecraft movie is only top in America.
Al: It wasn't top worldwide.
Codey: Hmm.
Al: So top worldwide, and this is where things are fantastic, was Niza 2.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: Which is a Chinese film.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: That made over 2 billion.
Al: The 2nd top was Zootopia 2.
Al: Which made one.800000000
Al: And then Avatar Fire and Ash made one.
Al: 5 billion.
Al: The live action, Lilo and Stitch made a 1000000000 for some stupid reason, and then a Minecraft movie made just under a 1000000000 and then, well, yeah, I mean, yeah.
Codey: Because kids' movies.
Codey: Parents don't really care if the movie's good.
Codey: They just take their kid to it because it's something to take their kid to.
Al: Sure, but Zootopia 2 was very good.
Codey: Oh yes, see, I didn't see it.
Al: I think the thing is that like, yes, they don't particularly care, but if they hear that a film is good, they're going to prioritise that one.
Al: And Zootopia 2 was very good.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: And I think Leo Stitch was because, oh, I want my kids to like what I like.
Codey: Well, have them watch Lilo and Stitch then.
Codey: The, the, the original.
Al: Look, you're not gonna, you're not, like, I'm not arguing against you.
Al: I agree.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: And then there was Jurassic World rebirth, uh, which was fine.
Al: Then the Demon Slayer film.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: I did not realise that made so much money.
Codey: People, people like their Demon Slayer, man.
Al: I made 800 millions.
Al: Uh, then the live action how to train your dragon.
Codey: No.
Al: Uh, F1.
Codey: Yeah, people like that.
Al: Uh, And then Superman.
Codey: Okay.
Al: And then you've got Mission Impossible, Wicked for Good, Fantastic Four, Detective Chinatown, 1900.
Al: Never heard of that.
Al: It looks like it might have been a Chinese one.
Al: But weirdly set in America, whatever.
Codey: Okay.
Codey: That's fine.
Codey: We have plenty of American movies that are set elsewhere.
Al: The conjuring, dead to right, Captain America Brave New World, that was an actively bad film.
Al: The housemade, Thunderbolts, and Sinners.
Al: I think there were a lot of good films last year.
Codey: See, but sinners, sinners was so good.
Al: Sinners was very good.
Al: Very good.
Al: Yeah, one of my top films.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: Uh...
Al: In fact, it was my 2nd top.
Codey: don't have a list.
Al: Shock.
Codey: I watched Rain Man today.
Codey: I had never seen that.
Codey: It was good.
Al: I have not seen.
Codey: It's Tom Cruise and Dennis Hoffman and Tom Cruise is like really arrogant and gets... Yeah, pretty much.
Al: So he's just cast...
Codey: And he has like a lot of beef with his dad, but then his dad dies and he goes to the will reading and he gets the card that his dad never let him drive and his rose bushes. And the rest of everything goes to another person.
Codey: And Tom Cruise is like, who's that?
Codey: Like who else could poss- my dad possibly give things to?
Codey: Like, I was his only kid.
Codey: Wife passed away, never remarried.
Codey: What the heck?
Codey: And he ends up like sneakily finding out that it's a man in a mental institution who ends up being his older brother.
Codey: And he kidnaps him to try and get the money because he's like, his dad had like $3000000 and he wants some of that money and he ends up, yeah, it's it's interesting.
Al: Oh.
Codey: But then while he has his brother, his brother is severely autistic.
Codey: Um, and like, uh, just very perceptive and like knows can count really high numbers and like all that, like just can remember a lot of things.
Codey: But is also very has his routines, has to do everything the same way.
Codey: And so it ends up that the brother, that Tom Cruise basically like learns how to be not as much of a dick.
Codey: Um, and in the end, just wants his brother, just wants to be in his brother's life and doesn't care as much about the money.
Codey: But it was very interesting to watch.
Codey: He takes him to Vegas and has him count cards.
Codey: Because he can remember like all of the things.
Al: Okay.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: Ah, yes, the the autism is a superpower story.
Codey: Yes.
Al: Classic.
Al: Okay.
Codey: Um, it does show, it does show like the downsides.
Codey: Like, it shows that that, like, it's been, and that it basically shows it as, like, his brother is manipulating and using him to, for this gift that he has.
Codey: Um,
Codey: to be able to, like, count cards really effectively.
Codey: Um, but then there's the other aspects of it, of when they're in.
Codey: Yeah, it's it's it's worth a watch.
Codey: I would watch it again, 10 out of 10.
Al: Fair enough.
Codey: Um, okay.
Codey: So that was what we've been up to.
Codey: What we've been watching and some really good conversation about, and discussion about movies.
Al: Woo!
Al: Woo.
Codey: Um, okay, so for my entomology corner, this 1st time, I kind of wanted to go over some resources that folks can use if they want to learn more about bugs, get involved in science in their area or get supplies for bugs.
Codey: Uh, and kind of go over the beginning of, um, the taxonomy and systematics or the naming and the describing and the organising of groups of of, uh, I started with arthropods, which is the greater, um, grouping that insects or within.
Codey: Um, but I 1st wanted to start off by answering.
Al: Wait, Cody, Cody, you haven't introduced this section properly, because this is Cody's entomology corner.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: Oh.
Codey: Yes.
Al: Because obviously we're not going to have news.
Al: So instead, Cody's going to do the entomology corner.
Codey: Woo.
Codey: Sorry, I thought I already said that.
Codey: Um.
Al: You might have mentioned it in the intro, but like, there you go.
Codey: Okay, yeah, so this is Cody's entomology corner.
Al: We've got to know.
Al: Cody just going straight into talking about bugs.
Codey: Bugs, bugs, bugs, bugs.
Codey: You can't stop me from talking about bugs, but you can, I can forget.
Al: I'm actively encouraging it, Cody.
Codey: I can forget to introduce the bug section.
Codey: Um, so yeah, we're going to do those things, but 1st I wanted to like answer any questions that either Al has.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: And then I asked in the slack as well.
Codey: So if you are not already in the slack and you have a burning bug question.
Codey: Get in the slack.
Codey: Uh, become become a patron, and you can ask a bug question, then I will answer.
Codey: Um, Al, did you have any questions or?
Al: Well, the, the, the, behind the scenes stuff is that Cody warned me about this literally 10 minutes before recording.
Al: So no, I don't have any fun questions.
Codey: Well, and I love how you say warned you about it.
Codey: I literally just wrote, answer any bug questions that Al has in the show notes and then you were like, 0 no.
Al: Okay, I read the show notes 10 minutes before.
Codey: No, and I like wrote it like 5 minutes before you put a note on it.
Codey: So no, that's fine if you don't have any bug questions.
Al: I don't have any bug questions now, other than just why bugs?
Codey: Um, Because, well, you mean why, like, why I study bugs or just why bugs exist?
Al: Why bugs?
Al: Why, why, why are bugs?
Codey: So bugs are because they uh, reproduce very, very quickly and have the ability to uh, adapt to almost any environmental niche that exists or niche, however you want to say that, uh, that exists in the world.
Al: I wasn't saying anything.
Codey: No, I mean, I just wanted to say, because people say it different ways.
Codey: Um, And so they're very adaptable and they reproduce very quickly so they can actually evolve pretty quickly as well.
Codey: Um, and that is why we have so many species of bugs.
Codey: slash arthropods because it is just a very effective, um, strategy.
Codey: And they fill all kinds of roles.
Codey: They're they're not only things to be eaten by other organisms.
Codey: They also consume other organisms, they also farm other organisms.
Codey: They manipulate each other.
Codey: They, yeah, they just do so many cool things.
Codey: And we will talk about, uh, a lot of that from a very top-down, like broad view.
Codey: I'll get into some specifics on some groups that I'm really passionate about, but some of them were probably just going to like whiz right by.
Codey: But, Cats question.
Al: Thanks.
Codey: So today's question of the day, cat, uh, with barely any, um, warning, uh, because I also just put, I just put, put your butt questions in a thread here. And, within like 20 minutes,
Al: Yeah, some people can do that, apparently.
Codey: Cat had a question.
Codey: Cat says, I saw a video a few days ago of a bee.
Codey: I don't remember which species problem solving by moving a sphere over to use it like a ladder or step so that it could reach a food source.
Codey: How intelligent are most bees and bugs in general.
Codey: Uh, and they append it with also not sure if the video was real, I didn't look into it.
Codey: Um, so it is real.
Codey: So I immediately knew what they were talking about because there is a lot that is being done in the realm of, um, insect cognition and
Codey: intellect and learning.
Codey: And bumblebees are like the poster child for it.
Codey: So that is what is being mostly used for a lot of these studies.
Codey: And it is their ability to learn, um, and to tool use, and some of them actually can like, not explain it, but they, they are able to watch another bee perform a task and then like learn that they can do that themselves.
Codey: They will then try and do it themselves.
Al: That's cleverer than some humans.
Codey: Yes.
Codey: So how intelligent are most bees and bugs in general?
Codey: So clearly intelligence is a hard thing to grab, to like map, like what do you, what does that mean?
Codey: Um, they will all respond to stimuli and they will all, um, you know, do what's in their instinct, instincts and and be able to problem solve a little bit in their own day to day.
Codey: But with what we consider intelligence, uh, like this tool use that this bee was doing and learning.
Codey: There's a good amount of them that can do it.
Codey: And they're all over the place that all over the world and all over the taxonomically, like there's spiders that can create catapults.
Codey: There's spiders that fish.
Codey: Um, there's, uh, these bees being able.
Codey: I mean, just any, just honeybees in general, uh, like navigating using the dance to navigate and explain to their sisters, like where food is is nuts.
Codey: Um, and it's not something that we understood until like 200 years ago.
Codey: Um, So in this video, it is, it is real, um, and you, you do see a little bumblebee and she, they show 2 different ones.
Codey: I posted a link in science.
Codey: It's from sciencenews.org, and it shows 1st a B in like a circular chamber, and she rolls a ball over to an area that has nectar available and she, because she can't reach it on her own.
Codey: And so she rolls the ball over there and stands on the ball to lick the nectar source.
Codey: And then the next part of that video.
Codey: There's a rectangular, um, space that she is put into that has some, uh, like nooks and crannies, like kind of like a maze. And she goes into the arena.
Codey: We usually call them arenas.
Codey: She goes into it and she goes and figures out where the blue nectar space is and then realises she can't reach it and she immediately goes and grabs the ball and navigates the ball over to where the thing is and then steps on top of it.
Codey: So this is, I mean, it's, I don't know how they're teaching them to do this, but it doesn't, it's not surprising to me.
Codey: Um, bees have to do a lot of different things in their day to day, uh, communicating with each other and, um, collecting resources and stuff that they have a more of an intellectual load than I think most people understand.
Codey: And I mean, we're all going to learn how to do something for food, right?
Codey: The great motivator.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: Um, So I think in general, bugs have are more intelligent than people realise.
Codey: And but also these types of things that pop up just are not surprising.
Codey: I actually yesterday went bowling and told, um, through a random conversation, I got to talking to one of the people who works at the bowling alley, and they asked me about how I'm an entomologist, and they asked me about a video they saw about jumping spiders, and that they have REM sleep, and they could possibly dream.
Al: Hmm.
Codey: And they said that this person said that their dad had told them this and that it's completely made up and entomologists are wasting their time.
Codey: But it's not made up.
Codey: Um, We, some researchers at Harvard did see that there is room sleep and jumping spiders.
Codey: And if you have ever taken the time.
Codey: I know most people probably aren't going to do this because of the fear and stigma around insects, arthropods in general.
Codey: Probably not ever like stared at a jumping spider.
Codey: But if you have, it is a wonderful experience.
Codey: They clearly perceive you.
Codey: They clearly are curious and interested in what you're doing.
Codey: There's a bigger market to have them as pets.
Codey: Um, you can buy them like at pet stores here in the United States now.
Codey: which I always think is hilarious because they're usually selling, I think it's like Fidipus Autax or something like that, which is just, I can just go find one outside right now instead of buying one for $50.
Codey: Um, it's probably going to be in better health than the one that I'm going to get at Petco.
Codey: Um, There's so many different species of them.
Codey: They are so interesting and it's just one of those things that people aren't interested in looking into or in like investigating.
Codey: We've lost a lot of the wonder because of the fear that people have of these things.
Codey: Like, another one of my friends was telling me about how scared she was of seller spiders.
Codey: I was like, why?
Codey: They're not going to do anything.
Codey: Do you guys have seller spiders?
Al: Uh.
Codey: Uh, they're like really long legged spiders that live in your basement or cellar or whatever.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Yeah, no, I, I,
Codey: They don't, they don't want to mess with you.
Codey: They're literally just chilling to consume any bugs that are in your house.
Codey: So, but she was like dog sitting for someone or something and there was one in the shower and she was like, nope, and she killed it.
Codey: And I'm like, I mean, you do you, if you, if you genuinely are afraid, but also maybe consider that fear.
Codey: Maybe take a 2nd and be like, what, where is this coming from?
Codey: And is it rational?
Codey: Because a lot of folks fear of arthropods is completely irrational and it's a learned behaviour.
Codey: So they're super cool and super intelligent.
Codey: In my opinion.
Codey: Any questions about that rant that I just went on?
Al: No, I I I would say one thing is I think it's fair to have a rational...
Codey: Oh, 100% like.
Al: So I don't, I think it's, people shouldn't necessarily feel bad for their fear, but like that's not the same thing as then, uh, trying to burn down.
Codey: Overcoming it.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: Yes.
Codey: That's, well, and that's like, I have multiple weird irrational fears where if I see a certain thing or whatever, like, I have a visceral, like, ugh, reaction.
Codey: Like, I'm just like, ooh, gross.
Codey: But I don't then, again, like you're saying, like burn it down.
Codey: Um, those fears exist for a reason.
Codey: Um, but sometimes that reason is not based in reality.
Codey: for some folks.
Codey: Like, some of the people that I've talked to when I've done outreach events.
Codey: Um, like people being afraid that a spider's gonna crawl in their ear.
Codey: And I'm like, I don't think that's going to happen.
Codey: There's no point in that ever happening.
Codey: Um, yeah, it's just, it's one of those things like once you know more about the topic.
Codey: The fear kind of goes away.
Codey: I'm not as worried about it.
Codey: Everyone here on the east coast was so worried about the murder hornets in 2020.
Al: Oh, I yeah, I remember that.
Codey: And if you know, if you just looked it up a little bit about what, like not any of the murder hornet things, but like looked up information about, what is it, Vespa Mandarina, I want to say?
Codey: Um, this.
Codey: Um, so they're called the Asian giant hornet is actually, yeah, Vespa Mandarina, Mandarinia.
Codey: Um, you would know that that's not, nothing's, you're fine.
Codey: They're not coming for you.
Codey: Like, especially if you're on the east coast because they are like most social wasps.
Codey: They are a social species that has a hierarchical, like structure.
Codey: And if you find a single female somewhere in the world.
Codey: It is like in a random ass place.
Codey: It is unlikely that she is going to have fertilised eggs and then generate a colony and they don't do it that fast either.
Codey: They usually only have one colony a year.
Codey: So it's not like a single foundress is going to make like a 1000000000 of them in a week or something.
Codey: Um, so it's just, it's not likely.
Codey: It's not going to happen with them.
Codey: Some of the other organisms like spotted lanternfly, which is another issue, that is an issue out here in the East.
Codey: They do have a 1000000000 babies and they are super hardy.
Codey: So like that is an issue, but the murder hornet is not.
Codey: Um, And a lot of that was just people's fear and a visceral reaction and people started fires because they saw a local hornet, which is, well, it's quote unquote local.
Codey: the European hornet, but it's a different species that is not the crazy honeybee killing species that everyone was freaked out about.
Codey: Um, everyone was like, 0 my gosh, the the murder hornets here because something that looks like it is here.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: And like some people started fires because they literally used flamethrowers to like try and kill these these hornets.
Al: But.
Codey: And it's like, that's, it's just,
Al: I'm surprised they didn't try and shoot them with bullets.
Codey: Yeah, I'm sure that that tried to that happen as well.
Codey: So yeah, all of this to say, irrational.
Al: Yeah, just try, just try and hit the flying creature.
Al: Well done.
Codey: Irrational fears and those feelings have like they exist for a reason.
Codey: They're there for a reason, but before you then deuce like action.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: Take a pause and think about if action really needs to be taken.
Al: You know, my thing about my thing about hornets is that the noise is particularly terrifying.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: It's so loud and it's like, I think I've only really seen hornets once in real life. Like, they're not super, super common here.
Al: Um, more likely to see wasps, like wasps and bees see all the time.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: In fact, I have just outside my office where I'm recording just now, we have a hedge, which is actually like 4 different plants growing together.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: It's not a single one. And my goodness, there are a lot of bees that hang around there.
Al: Like, on Friday, I was looking at it trying to, trying to figure out how many were and I could easily count like 25 of them in like one small section of the hedge.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: So, um, yeah, bees and wasps I see all the time, but hornets, I think the thing is when they're, when you see them less often, they are, it's easier to be frightened of them, especially when they are larger and noisier and uh, more scaly and, you know, just like lots of things.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: Yes.
Codey: It just, it, I, like, I understand that, and definitely, like, there have been times when I'm in the forest and I come upon, like, a bald faced hornet nest or something like that, and I'm like, oop, gonna walk over her now, like, for if it was a different type of nest or something, I would probably just be like, oh, interesting, and then just like walk by, not being that worried about it.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: So, I mean, they,
Al: Those are white.
Codey: Oh yeah, so the Baldface hornets have like this white on their face.
Codey: Like, yeah, they're really interesting.
Al: If that was a Pokemon, it would be a ghost tape.
Codey: It should yeah, it should be.
Codey: That is actually really cool.
Codey: Um, now I'm thinking about that.
Codey: But, yeah.
Codey: That's, I don't know how we got on that topic, but...
Al: Bees clever.
Codey: Bees are clever and you people don't consider that because they are afraid of them.
Codey: Um, so thank you for the question, Kat.
Codey: Feel free to put out another question or listeners for to put in your own question in the Slack.
Codey: So briefly I wanted to...
Al: Although hopefully episodes will be recorded by the time you hear this, but you never know.
Codey: Oh yeah, true.
Codey: I mean, I can always answer them later, or on Slack, or whatever.
Codey: Um,
Al: If it gets popular, maybe Cody's Entomology Corner will expand past bug a month.
Codey: Aw, could be like a monthly thing.
Al: No promises, but...
Codey: I will promise forever. Because that's what I do.
Codey: Okay, so some resources past what I...
Al: Oh, hey, Cody, Cody, are you about to tell us bug stuff on the web?
Codey: yeah.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: I am.
Codey: I'm gonna tell people stuff to look up on the web to understand bugs.
Codey: Okay, so if you are in North America.
Codey: Sorry, I'll, uh, bugguide.net.
Al: I don't apologise.
Al: I don't want to be there.
Codey: Oh, you're right.
Codey: Uh, bugguide.net is a wonderful uh, resource that I use a lot that has a lot of really good information about different species.
Codey: It's kind of like, um, a Wikipedia of bugs specifically that entomologists use, and we will update it and add new information, and we put pictures up there.
Codey: So it's a way if you have a very specific species or a certain thing that you're looking for, you can actually browse through a bunch of different things to try and get it.
Codey: So sometimes I will find, uh, like very clearly I have a ground beetle in the family karabity, but I don't know where to go from there.
Codey: I don't know what it is.
Codey: Um, on bug guide, they might they will have some references of what, um, like different dichotomous keys that I could use to try and diagnose what kind of bug it, like what kind of carabit it is.
Codey: Um, I could look at photos of a bunch of different carabids and see, oh, this one's a West Coast one, this one's an East Coast one.
Codey: Um, if an entomologist made a cool graphic or something, they would probably put it on the crabbed page.
Codey: So it's kind of a repository for a bunch of information about things that people put, uh, that people have, um, either the information or the questions.
Codey: You can also upload photos, and entomologists will categorise them for you, or ask questions.
Codey: Um, so I really like Bug Guide.
Codey: I use it fairly regularly.
Codey: So I highly suggest it if you are in the area, um, of North America.
Codey: Another thing that I really like, and this is global, is called eye naturalist. So this is an application that can be used not just for bugs, you can use it for literally any biotic organism that you see, that you can have it on your phone, and you take a photo of whatever you see in front of you, and then there is an algorithm that has now been trained on, like, at this point, probably 10000000s of user uploaded images of biotic organisms.
Codey: It uses that and then also uses feedback from users. to give you a prediction of what it thinks that it's looking at.
Codey: Um, or what you, what it thinks is in the photo.
Codey: Uh, notes, you need to have a really good photo.
Codey: So if you put like a Bigfoot photo of something on there, depending on what it is, you might not get very good suggestions.
Codey: Sometimes people like will reach out to me and I highly suggest if anyone wants to do this, please do it.
Codey: I love getting these these questions.
Codey: But they reach out to me and they're like, what is this bug?
Codey: And I'm like, well, this photo looks like it's a smudge on the bottom of a well that I am at the top of.
Codey: So I don't, I can't tell you much information, or I can tell you a, a smattering, but I can't tell you like more specific than that.
Codey: Um, so on eye naturalist, if you're going to upload something, make sure it's, you know, the clearest photo that you can get, um, maybe if you have, if you can take a couple photos from a couple different angles, because sometimes you need to see things from different angles to be able to diagnose uh, lower. And then the algorithm and other users will go through and confirm identifications and uh, maybe update identifications.
Codey: Um, so I really like that as well.
Codey: And even if you don't want to make an eye naturalist account and contribute.
Codey: You can just go onto it and explore. So you could go out to wherever your neighbourhood is, um, on the eye naturalist map and just look, look up, um, observations of insects.
Codey: And then it'll show you all of the different bugs that people have taken photos of in your area.
Codey: So you kind of have then like, uh, a list or like a task, like, oh, here are all the things that I could see.
Codey: Let me go find them, you know.
Codey: Um, the last thing I'll say about I Naturalist, I super love it in general, but like as a cute thing that people can do, but also, if your observation gets confirmed by enough people and there's a consensus among the people that identify whatever is in your image, it becomes what is known as research grade.
Codey: So that is a an observation at a specific time and location, which you should have that information when you upload it.
Codey: An observation of that organism at that time and that location that could then be used in research going forward.
Codey: And there have been entire papers discussing range distributions and distributional changes where an insect or anything might.
Codey: have popped up into a new area or where how that shifted in the last 50 years and how something might be going more northward and it's not really being seen in its southern range anymore, but it's being found more north.
Codey: It can explain invasions.
Codey: So if something is invasive.
Codey: And then you're like, oh, one popped up like way over here on a naturalist.
Codey: I actually used it for that reason, um, for an aunt that is coming into our area.
Codey: Um, and it's all like citizen science.
Codey: Like anyone can do this.
Codey: I've met kids that do this and they just have so much fun.
Codey: It's like real life Pokemon hunting.
Codey: So highly recommend people go on to a naturalist and create an account and start recording observations.
Al: Hmm.
Codey: You can also become like the best observer in your area.
Codey: There's like a, a, a leader list.
Codey: Leaderboard.
Al: Oh don't gamify it for me.
Codey: Oh, it's gamified.
Codey: Um, and then the last thing, so those are 2 really good resources for finding insects in your world and getting more information about them.
Codey: Um, the last thing I'm going to plug is ecology supplies, which is a company that is based in my area, actually.
Codey: There used to be this big company called Bioquip that you would get equipment for biological research, but that company, um, they retired and no one took up the mantle.
Codey: So, um, ecology supplies is one of the companies that's kind of taking over that gap in, because then a bunch of us were like, where are we going to get pins?
Codey: Where are we going to get like all of these nets?
Codey: Like, where are we going to get what we need?
Codey: So ecology supplies is that.
Codey: Um, and so if you have anything that you need for, if you're interested in collecting insects, um, you can go to ecology supplies and there's actually even like a student starter kit that I want to say is like a $100, but it includes like everything, like the net and all of the pins and a box to put them in and like it kind of goes over how to do everything.
Codey: So I really like that for like a kid.
Codey: If you have a family member who's really interested in bugs.
Codey: Highly recommend it.
Codey: Do you have any questions about the resources, though?
Al: Cool. No, it all seems very cool.
Codey: Cool, taxonomy.
Codey: Okay.
Codey: So now we're going to go through starting from the group Arthropoda, or which is just the Arthropods.
Codey: So these are all soft bodied organisms, um, like, soft bodied invertebrates that, um, have segmented bodies.
Codey: I'm trying to remember exactly what distinguishes arthropods.
Codey: Now that I'm like looking at it.
Codey: Um, yeah, it has a exoskeleton, um, a chitinous exoskeleton, uh, body that is differentiated into segments and paired jointed appendages.
Codey: So think of like a leg, an insect or a spider leg.
Codey: Like it is, there is always one on either side of the body.
Codey: There's like to match, um, and they are jointed, so that they, it's not just like a stick hanging out, doing nothing.
Codey: Like it has musculature.
Codey: So there are 4 groups of arthropods.
Codey: The 1st ones are the chalicerates.
Codey: So these are things like uh, spiders and scorpion, like a lot of the arachnids are in uh, chilicerata.
Codey: Um, Water scorpions.
Codey: I don't know if you've ever seen those in sea spiders, picnagodids.
Codey: Really cool.
Codey: Um, they... You're looking at them.
Al: I have not.
Al: There are quite something.
Al: I am looking at them.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: Um, so I actually really like going on, uh, I naturalist and you can look at like the taxonomy tab and you can go through some of these things.
Codey: It's very interesting.
Codey: Another thing that is within chalicerates are horseshoe crabs, which are one of evolutions, like chef's kiss things, because horseshoe crabs are one of those organisms that has changed very little in the last like 100s of 1000000s of years or whatever.
Codey: Um, It, they just, they, they look almost exactly the same as they have always looked.
Codey: There are these little goobers that are aquatic, um, and I got to see some of my 1st ones recently, and I was very excited um, out here in the eastern.
Codey: Let me see where their range is.
Codey: I can look at their range.
Codey: Oh yeah, you're not going to ever see them.
Codey: They're not anywhere near you.
Codey: Yeah, correct.
Al: Also not a crab.
Codey: Also, not a crab.
Codey: Um,
Al: I will never be tired of seeing us name animals after a different animal that it is not.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: So a lot of that stems from, um, when people started naming things the 1st time, like the 1st time around.
Codey: They were just going based off of like what it looks like.
Codey: Like the morphology of it.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Doesn't look like a crab either, though.
Codey: Or, or share.
Al: If this is if this is what they thought a crab looked like, what crabs did they have?
Codey: Well, so if you flip it over, it does.
Codey: It's got,
Codey: If you flip a crab over, they actually look pretty similar.
Al: That still doesn't look like a crab.
Codey: They have the same little legs.
Al: No, I know, I'm not, no, no, I am not, look, look, I will defer to you on matters of definitions and matters of bugs.
Codey: Okay.
Al: I will not let you gaslight me into thinking this looks like a crab in any way, shape, or form.
Codey: Agree to disagree.
Codey: Um
Al: Listeners, go look at the horseshoe crab.
Al: Tell me how on earth anyone would think this looks like a crap.
Codey: on the underside of.
Al: No.
Codey: Um, so, but so, so, way back when, if we had only looked at how things either behaved or how they looked, um, this is how you 1st get in the 1st beginnings of, of, uh, classification of organisms, they thought that bats were birds because they both fly, right?
Al: It just has legs.
Al: That doesn't make it look like a crab.
Al: Fair, yes.
Codey: They both they both fly, they both do the similar things.
Codey: They're not, clearly.
Codey: They are, but it's just another organism from a different group that is using the same niche, niche.
Codey: How do you want to say it?
Codey: How do you want me to say it?
Al: You can say who you want to.
Al: I would say niche, but you can say what you want.
Codey: Niche, okay.
Codey: Okay.
Al: I'm not going to police your language.
Codey: I feel like someone in the, in the, someone's listening and is like, hey, stop, pronounce that way.
Al: Probably, but that's not that's not how language works.
Codey: Everyone.
Codey: It's true.
Codey: Um, so yeah, that's that's how you get things like this being called a horseshoe crab, even though it's not even in the subphylum of crustacea.
Codey: It's with chalicerites.
Al: It doesn't it doesn't even really look like a horseshoe.
Al: I get where they're coming from that one
Al: It looks more like a horseshoe than it does a crab, but like even that's a stretch, horseshoe.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: Like it looks like a bowl.
Al: It looks like something's got stuck under a ball.
Codey: But when they named it, I mean, how many did people have bowls that looked that were shaped like this or did the bowl, you know?
Codey: I don't know.
Al: Well, when they gave the English name, the modern English name to this, we're not talking, we're not, we're not trying to suggest that it was called horseshoe crab 5000 years ago.
Codey: I know.
Al: I don't know when were bowls invented?
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: I don't know.
Al: roughly 18,000 years ago.
Codey: Yeah, an 18001 year ago, horseshoe crabs were named.
Al: It was when they gave the name horseshoe crab to this creature.
Al: I would absolutely love if this was the death, like the origin of both horseshoes and crabs.
Codey: Oh my gosh.
Al: We named horseshoes, horseshoes, because they look like horseshoe crap.
Al: Not because they're shoes for horses.
Codey: Okay, so, yeah, chalicerates includes arachnids, uh, which has the spiders and the scorpions and the mites and the ticks and like all the other things people don't like.
Codey: Uh, it also includes, oh, chillistrates also includes the horseshoe crabs and the sea spiders.
Codey: Um, crustaceans is another subphylum within arthropods.
Codey: Um, sure does include the things that you're thinking about, the crabs, the, oh, there's also the horseshoe shrimps.
Al: Oh boy, are they shrimps?
Codey: They're shrimps.
Codey: There are have are 4 whole observations of them on eye naturalist.
Al: Oh, wow.
Codey: Um.
Al: Horseshoe, again, a bit of a stretch.
Al: But if it is actually a shrimp, I'll give it the shrimp.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: Oh, fun.
Codey: This.
Codey: Crustaceans includes the superclass oligastreca, which includes the tongue worms.
Al: Let it have.
Codey: Have you heard of tongue worms before?
Al: Oh no, do I want to have...
Codey: It's actually kind of cool.
Codey: So, but people were probably not going to like it, but it's basically these worms.
Al: Oh no.
Codey: These worms that go into fit, it's fish.
Codey: It's they're aquatic.
Codey: But they will go in um, into a fish, I think, through the gills.
Al: Okay.
Codey: They will consume the fish's tongue, and then they will functionally become the fish's tongue.
Codey: So they will basically do what the tongue was already doing.
Al: Go.
Codey: And so whenever, but that whenever the fish is eating something, the tongue worm will just take a little bit.
Codey: Just take a little nibble of whatever it's eating.
Codey: And that's what it does.
Codey: That's what they do.
Codey: I'm unlocking new horrors for people.
Al: I'm suddenly very aware of my time.
Codey: Arthropods also includes myriapods, which has the centipedes and the millipedes and their associate associates.
Codey: Do you guys have house centipedes?
Al: I always have to Google these things because sometimes we call them, oh, no.
Al: Oh, that is a lot of like.
Codey: Yeah, so how centipedes have a lot of legs, uh, and they are here.
Al: I don't think that's a 100 legs, though, just saying.
Codey: So like,
Codey: No, so they so the centipedes and millipedes saying a 100 legs and a 1000 legs, not true.
Codey: Um, that's not how many legs they have.
Codey: It's just,
Al: You get these things in your house.
Codey: Yes, I we have them in my house right now.
Al: Oh my, because spiders didn't have enough.
Codey: No.
Codey: Well, and so these things, because they're they're really quite,
Codey: well, I mean, spiders are also quiet, but like, you can just, you'll just turn around and there's one of these things like on the wall.
Al: Because here's the thing about centipedes is like most of like my experience of centipedes has been like the really long things.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: This is not long.
Al: This just looks like it went, I need more legs.
Codey: No.
Al: Why do you need more legs?
Codey: Yeah.
Al: I don't know.
Al: I just like the legs.
Al: Let me have the legs.
Codey: I like the legs.
Al: What is like normal centipede like, I get why they have lots of legs.
Al: They've got a really long body.
Al: This thing.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: Not really.
Codey: No.
Codey: Didn't doesn't need a lot of legs, doesn't need, um...
Al: It's stealing all the legs.
Codey: It's also, it's also, they're also,
Al: Who's he stealing legs from?
Codey: They're also long, very long legs versus like some of some of the other centipedes.
Al: Yeah, the legs are longer than the body.
Codey: Yeah, centipedes in general do not have legs that are this long.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: Um,
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: The main difference between centipedes and millipedes is going to be the number of legs per segment, but also that centipedes are generally predatory to other things and they usually live in like leaf litter or whatever.
Codey: So they're going to be in, in the, underneath things that you're probably not going to see them that often unless you like flip a log, which I do that a lot.
Codey: So I see a lot of these.
Codey: Um, and millipedes are not.
Codey: So they are normally what are known as detritivores.
Codey: They consume detritus or like just organic material that has degraded past or being able to be identified.
Codey: Um, And so like soil.
Codey: They're usually in the soils, they might consume dead wood.
Codey: Um, and they're actually very important for uh, nutrient recycling because a lot of stuff without a detritivore.
Codey: Some things won't break down very quickly.
Codey: And so the nutrients that were within that thing that is supposed to be being broke, that needs to be broken down would just sit there for a long time.
Codey: So things like to try divorce are great because they will munch it up, they will eat it, and then they will poop it out and it will be very, very, uh, able to, like the nutrients can get into the system a lot easier as the fras of a detritivore versus like as a log that is slowly deteriorating.
Codey: So.
Al: Well.
Codey: We have some really cool millipedes here too.
Codey: Some that are pretty big.
Codey: And millipedes are also something that you can have like as pets.
Codey: People have them as pets.
Codey: Um, oh, also part of uh, Mary, uh, the subphylum Mariapoda is parapoda, which has like the, um, wood lice in it, roly-poleys, pill bugs. Yeah.
Al: Yes.
Al: Ah, yes, wood lice.
Al: Ludlice, every, they are everywhere here all the time.
Al: They're just everywhere.
Codey: Yeah, and people have, like people have those as pets too.
Codey: So they have like some that are the rubber ducky.
Al: It feels like the most boring animal to have as a pet, I would...
Codey: Well, it's it's mostly so that you have all the different colours, colour morphs, because they come in orange, they come in blue, they come in, they come in lava, lava colour, you can get the rubber ducky one, you can get the cow.
Al: Oh, shiny hunting.
Al: Oh, interesting.
Al: I'll be honest.
Al: I've never
Al: I've never seen them other than just like the dull gray, dark gray colour.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: That's the stand.
Al: That's that's all I've really...
Codey: So look up rubber ducky isopod right now.
Codey: No, don't be don't be scared.
Al: Oh, what?
Codey: Isn't that cute?
Al: What?
Codey: You can have them as pets.
Al: This is a, this is a real thing?
Codey: That's a real thing.
Al: Its face looks like a dog.
Codey: Correct
Al: Like I'm not, this is not, this is not a thing, right?
Al: Like listeners, you know I'm not going to like overreact.
Al: Like, I will call it out when it's not.
Al: This the face looks like a rubber duck.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: It really does.
Codey: And you can get these.
Al: Oh my word.
Codey: You can get these as pets.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: So that's one of the ones that's most popular.
Codey: And so if you only get like, yeah, if you get like 10, so there are pets that you basically just like have to get like 10 and then they just breed and you can just, you can just throw in leaves.
Al: I I see why.
Al: Why is this a thing?
Al: How did this happen?
Codey: You can throw in like your apple core and they'll consume it.
Codey: Um, They're just cute.
Codey: Look at that.
Codey: Look how cute that is.
Codey: I don't know how this happened in nature, but we sure... We sure did.
Al: Native to Thailand.
Codey: Oh yeah, everything is always new. Like, the tropics is where, um, evolution went crazy with colour.
Al: Wow.
Codey: So, yeah, that is the last of the, uh, arthropod subphyla that do that is not hexapods.
Codey: So now we're going into hexapods.
Codey: Al, what do you think hexapod means?
Al: Uh... Sorry, I just read what...
Al: Well, I would have said something to do with six.
Al: But then I just read the comment after the Vortex pod, which does not say anything about sex.
Codey: Correct.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: It does not.
Codey: Uh, well, technically, the end part does.
Codey: 3 pairs of...
Codey: Hexapods, uh, are the arthropods of the soft body chitinous body segmented into their body into segments, um, that have a three-part body plan.
Codey: So they have a head, a thorax, and an abdomen, and they, on the thorax, there are 3 pairs of legs.
Al: Bees. No, be, well, zombies, not obies, I guess.
Al: Wasps.
Codey: What about wasps?
Al: They have three.
Codey: Correct.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: All all insects do.
Codey: All insects will have 3 body parts.
Al: Oh, really?
Codey: It's just, yeah, so they, they will.
Al: Even, even, even like bumblebees, they look like they're just one big circle.
Codey: Correct, but if you, if you shaved off all of their fuzz, you would find, You would find, like, a distinct head, a distinct thorax and a distinct abdomen.
Al: Don't do that.
Al: Don't shave your bees.
Codey: And the thorax is what the appendages come off of.
Codey: So whether that is 3 pairs of legs or the wings.
Al: Oh, sorry.
Al: Sorry, I just Googled shaved bumblebee.
Al: Don't do that.
Al: Don't guggle shaved bumblebee.
Codey: They, I mean.
Al: That's not a shaved bumblebee.
Al: I don't know what that is.
Al: That is horrific.
Codey: Oh, oh.
Codey: Okay.
Codey: I mean, you can also just look at some of the other bees.
Al: Okay, I can see, I can see, I I see an actual shaved bumblebee now, and yes, I see what you're saying.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: They're just very fluffy.
Al: Most of those pictures are not shaped on puppies.
Al: One of them definitely the Transformer.
Codey: Oh yes.
Codey: Yikes.
Codey: Um.
Codey: So yeah, that's what hexapods are.
Al: Sorry, so sorry.
Al: I'm so sorry.
Codey: They have that three-part body land. And then hexapods are separated into N Tognatha and Antognatha means inside jaw.
Codey: So their mouth parts are all internal.
Codey: So the chompy bits.
Codey: It's it's inside of the body.
Codey: It's not something that you see.
Codey: And they, uh, the 3 main groups within Antechnatha are the Colambolins, the diplurans, and the proterans.
Codey: So Columbla, have you ever heard of spring tails?
Codey: Oh my gosh, I love Springtail so much.
Codey: So Springtails, yeah, so they come in all kinds of shapes and sizes.
Al: Ooh, they're so fluffy.
Codey: My favourite are the globular spring tales, but they are so named spring tail because they have this appendage underneath them called the furcula that is basically a jumpy uppy mechanism, where it's always like, it's, it's, main state is to be furled, I guess, or like, think of like a mousetrap, and you've set the mousetrap so that it can be sprung, right?
Codey: That is their main state.
Codey: And then if they are afraid, if they're, if like a predator scares them, they release that and it flings them elsewhere.
Codey: They have no control over to where they are flung.
Codey: They just get flung.
Codey: Um, but that is why they're called spring tails because they have this appendage that kind of looks like a tail that makes them jump away.
Al: Okay.
Codey: Um
Al: I'll be honest with you, I'm going to be honest with you, Poodie.
Al: Not a fan of the globular springtail.
Codey: No, they're so cute.
Al: There's something.
Al: No, no, it's, it's, it's giving me, uh, like that hairless cat from friends.
Codey: Oh yeah, I can get that.
Al: I just I'm uncomfortable.
Al: I don't.
Al: Like they, I'm not
Al: I'm not like live and let live.
Al: I'm not gonna, you know, I'm not going to genocide them, but not a fan.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: Yep.
Al: They just make me feel very uncomfortable.
Codey: Well, do you like the elongate spring tails or the plump spring tails?
Al: They're they're fine.
Codey: The plump ones are nuts because they have some.
Al: Oh, they're very, they're fuzzy.
Codey: They're, yeah, the plump ones have like a lot of, they look, they just have so many weird like things coming off of them.
Codey: They're also pretty bright colours.
Codey: Um, I do love some, like some of these have just like the wildest.
Codey: They're like blue or bright red, so then you can actually see them pretty well as they are in the, so these are also detritivorous.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: They're also mainly going to be like in the leaf litter.
Codey: Um, someone, I kind of remember who said this, but like, Whenever you're standing on a forest patch, you're probably standing on like a 1000000 arthropods beneath you, just beneath your feet. And it's mostly going to be things like spring tails and like other tiny things, like mites and whatever, but those are all required for ecosystem function because they break things down.
Codey: They also are consumed by things.
Codey: So that's spring tails.
Codey: We also have diplurines, which are bristle tails.
Codey: So dye, plura, they have 2 plura or like tails, I think is what that's considered.
Codey: They don't have any eyes, which is nuts.
Codey: They, I think they just sense the world mostly through their antennae.
Codey: And they have, yeah, those 2 prongs that come out of the back.
Codey: And then Protura, um, is the other Antegnathan hexapod, also doesn't have eyes.
Codey: And they, so their body has what is known as anamorphic development, they basically just keep adding segments onto the back.
Codey: So as they get older, they just butt get long.
Codey: It just keeps.
Al: Like the, like snake, the game.
Codey: It's it just keeps going.
Codey: Um, yeah, I don't think I've ever seen a pro Terren, because they're so small and I don't even really know where you would find one.
Codey: They're also called the cone heads.
Al: Yeah, these pictures, these pictures are clearly like, uh, um, what they called.
Codey: Microscopic.
Al: Microscopic, that's what it is.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: I was like, not telescope, the other one.
Al: The opposite of that.
Codey: No, they're, they're very, very small.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: Um, so, but they're called cone heads because they have their heads are little cones.
Codey: Um, and then finally we arrive at insects.
Codey: So, uh, insects or ectoganatha, so they're external mouth parts.
Codey: Insect means cut into pieces.
Codey: Um, and they called it this because of the fact that they're made up of little pieces.
Codey: Usually like the, again, the, there's that three-part body plan.
Codey: They have 3 pairs of legs.
Codey: They have a paired wings, like they have all of these thing, antennae, all of these things that are that are pieces that put it together.
Codey: Um, at least that's what people thought however many years ago.
Codey: Along with their external mouth parts, they also have compound eyes and antennae.
Codey: So compound eyes are, instead of just having a simple, um, ocular device.
Codey: that can see in one thing, like one thing at a time, they have eyes that are made up of many, sometimes in some organisms, I want to say like 100s or 1000s of pieces that help make one picture.
Codey: Um, so it's compound because it's multiple pieces that make, that can help you make, help them make one picture.
Codey: And then, and that's how they visualise.
Codey: And then antennae or how they sense and smell and taste in all of that, taste their environment.
Codey: Um, that's their antennae and their eyes are like the 2 main sensory organs that insects have.
Codey: Insects are incredibly diverse.
Codey: On the Wikipedia, it says half of all known animal species are insects.
Codey: Um, or it says half of all animal species, but I put the word known because there are so many more that have just been completely undescribed because people don't, we don't have enough entomologists to describe them all, basically.
Codey: Um, or have the knowledge.
Codey: We haven't gone to gone everywhere.
Codey: There's some places that insects are still being found.
Codey: Um, It's wild.
Codey: It's, there's a saying that someone once said that God has an inordinate fondness of Beatles, because there's so many Beatles species.
Codey: I think that you can fit like all of the other insect species within, uh, not, so all of the non-Holland metabolist insect species within Beatles. It's just, there's so many.
Codey: There's like 20 Beatles for every other thing.
Codey: Um, okay.
Codey: And then there's three, we're almost there, folks.
Codey: We're almost there.
Codey: There's 3 things that separate out.
Al: It's fine if they didn't, if they didn't care about entomology, Carter, they couldn't skip it if they wanted.
Codey: You're right, you're right.
Codey: Uh, there's 3 things that separate, uh, that are 3 groupings within insects.
Codey: So there's what's known as archaeognatha or ancient Jaw.
Codey: And these are just the basic bristle tails.
Codey: So they have 3 cersei or prongs.
Codey: Um, but they have a very different external mouth part than any other insect.
Codey: So they have what's called monocondile, so it only has one joint, um, point, but all other insects have dicondile, so 2 joint points for their mouth parts.
Codey: So, Archaegnatha, they're off on their own.
Codey: They're these little bristle tails.
Codey: They're really cute
Codey: Um, I mean, they're all cute, in my opinion.
Codey: And then Zigentoma, which is the silver fish.
Codey: Um, yeah, I don't I didn't really have anything else to say.
Codey: If you've played Minecraft, you've found silverfish before.
Codey: Though they hurt you in Minecraft and I don't think that they would really hurt you in real life.
Codey: Um, so those 2 insects do not ever have wings.
Codey: So they are the only 2 orders within the class insecta that never have wings.
Codey: Everything else is within tarragoda, which are all of the winged insects.
Codey: Terry is wing.
Codey: Um, in, uh, Latin.
Codey: So everything else that we will discuss in the next few Cody entomology corners will be the winged insects.
Codey: But that is, those are the basal, the beginning parts of how we get to insects from the world.
Codey: Do you have any questions?
Al: Well, well, no, my question was why insect and now you've you've described.
Codey: I've, I've described why insect and I've, yeah.
Al: And what insect and how insect?
Codey: And what?
Codey: And who insects?
Al: And who is?
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: So again, if you have any questions about this, hit me up on the Slack.
Codey: Uh, and next time, the next episode of Entomology Corner, we'll go over, uh, some more, some winged insects.
Codey: Oh, woo.
Al: Nice.
Al: Woo!
Codey: Okay.
Al: Bugs, bugs, bugs.
Codey: Bugs, bugs.
Codey: Main topic is the game, Cabuto Park.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: And you played this?
Al: I played and finished this.
Codey: I did too.
Al: Yes, I have completed the game.
Al: Uh
Codey: What are your main thoughts?
Al: Yes, so, well, so I'll start off with, um, I very quickly talked about this a few weeks ago, as you're listening to this to Kevin in our what we've been up to.
Al: I just, all I did, it was yesterday the recording.
Al: All I said was I described the game as, uh, I think this is, if you, this feels like somebody got a very quick description of what Pokemon was and built the game.
Al: It's as if somebody described Pokemon as you catch bugs and you make them fight. And someone made that game without any other knowledge about Pokemon.
Codey: Yep.
Codey: Yep Yep.
Al: Uh, it's fun. It's a relatively short game, um, but that's that's no bad thing.
Codey: Yep.
Al: I enjoyed...
Al: I mean, I enjoy catching creatures.
Al: So why would I not enjoy that?
Codey: Yeah.
Al: And I think it did an interesting.
Al: I mean, we'll get into the specifics of the fighting mechanics, but I thought that was different than how every other kind of creature collector that I've played has ever done.
Al: which feels like you have a lot of control over it even when you're underleveled.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: But we'll get into that, I guess, when we get to it.
Al: Well, but your overall thoughts.
Codey: You're saying there's a chance?
Al: There's a chance, there's always a chance, yeah.
Al: What about your thoughts?
Codey: Yeah, my overall thoughts, I also really liked it.
Codey: Um, I thought it was very charming and very cute.
Codey: I liked that it doesn't like make you go fast.
Codey: Like it, it doesn't make you go a certain speed, I guess, is just the period.
Al: Mm-hmm.
Codey: Like, you could stay.
Codey: you could play like 5 hours in the 1st day.
Codey: and just catch the bugs in the one area over and over and over again, if that was what you wanted to do.
Codey: If you wanted to perchance get a shiny book.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Perchance.
Codey: Um.
Al: How many Chinese did you catch?
Codey: I think three.
Al: Oh, three.
Al: I only got two.
Codey: I win.
Codey: Um, but it was, and I won.
Al: Was that a competition?
Codey: Um, but it's also a game that you're able to play in a short amount of time and complete.
Codey: I think I played it for like an hour before I got credits.
Codey: But then you can also play it again, or you can go back through and try and like level up all your stuff a lot.
Codey: Um, It kind of is what you make it, and which is the same as Pokemon, Pokemon is also kind of what you make it.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: Um, So yeah.
Al: What I liked particularly was it felt like everything tied together nicely, right?
Codey: Yes.
Al: So you catch Pokemon.
Al: You catch bugs.
Codey: You catch bug type Pokémon.
Al: Yeah, goodness sake.
Al: You catch bugs, and then you can sell the bugs to get the stuff to, um, both, uh, level up your existing bugs and also buy some stuff and you levelled up your bugs to do battles.
Al: And when you did battles, you got money to buy some stuff and you buy stuff that allows you to get more bugs.
Al: So it's like, it's a really nice satisfying tertiary loop, if you will.
Al: Um, and, and that kind of, it doesn't, I think possibly it would have some of the same grind issues as Pokemon did if you needed to get much higher level than you do, but I think the amount that it has is just the right amount where I never felt like I was going out of my way to grind in a way that I wasn't enjoying, especially as I, because obviously I had to catch everything, right?
Codey: Yeah.
Al: I had to get one of everything at least.
Codey: Yes.
Al: I didn't get to the point where I was still catching bugs without having bugs that I needed to catch.
Al: So it was really well balanced, I felt, in that.
Codey: Yes.
Codey: Yes, I agree.
Codey: Um, okay, so the basic, what did you play this on?
Al: I played on my handheld, my knotted.
Codey: Okay.
Codey: I played mine on Xbox Game Pass because it is free on Game Pass right now.
Al: Yes, I also got it on Game Pass.
Codey: Okay.
Codey: Um, and then, so I just want...
Al: Because I'm trying to play as many games as I can in my 3 months free game impacts.
Codey: Oh yeah.
Codey: There's some there's some good games on Game Pass.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: I like them.
Codey: Um.
Codey: So the blurb on Steam is, quote, enjoy summer in Kabutza Park.
Codey: Catch the cutest bugs, train them, and win the summer Beatle Battles championship in this tiny bug collection game.
Codey: Upgrade your equipment to find rarer, stronger, and shinier little friends.
Codey: Um, the, uh, it was released actually last year, May 28th of 2025, and the reviews are overwhelmingly positive, which I am not sure what you would have to say about this that's negative.
Codey: Um, it's five.
Al: Presumably the main thing would be that it's short, right?
Al: Like if people want really long games that, that, I mean, I, I'm not that, I've dugged before that I want more shorter games and that's why I particularly liked it being a good amount of space, but some people like really like.
Codey: Sure.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: Um.
Al: It's no persona or uh, um, or Yakuza.
Codey: It is only $5 on steam.
Codey: Um, yeah, it's for, for what it, I think I played it for like 3, 3 or 3 hours total or something like that.
Al: Bargain.
Codey: Um, So well worth the $5.
Codey: I actually kind of wish that I.
Al: It's even on sale just now, although obviously it won't be on sale by the time you hear this, but it's on sale right now.
Codey: Yes.
Codey: And it looks, it's, it's in a few different bundles.
Al: 30% off.
Codey: So there's, um, the, I love bugs bundle, um, that has bugaboo pocket and Kabuto park in it.
Codey: There's the, oh, and um, Budgie's Bug Shop is also, I think, in that bundle.
Codey: Um, There's cute bug friends.
Codey: So there's a few different bundles that you could buy, um, that would save you money off on some bug games.
Al: Apico was in the, I love...
Codey: Oh, Apico.
Codey: Okay.
Al: Minute.
Codey: And Froggy's battle.
Codey: And then we got Bug Tope.
Codey: Wait, what is Bug Topia?
Codey: Oh, I guess it doesn't matter because it's Windows.
Codey: Ble.
Codey: Um, Yeah, so there's a few different things that you could get.
Codey: Um,
Codey: But, yeah, so starting off, it says enjoy summer in Kabutza Park.
Codey: It is summer.
Codey: It is a single month.
Codey: So the entire game takes place.
Codey: I want to say in August.
Codey: Um, you're basically a kid at a summer camp. And you go and your friend, you meet, you meet someone and she tells you about it.
Codey: She gives you like a basic net or something.
Codey: Um, and then you, uh, she shows you kind of how to do everything and says that there's this big championship, uh, collection tournament, um, or battle tournament, battle championship that you can do. So you have the, um, the few different places on the map that you unlock by increasing your boots.
Codey: But you start off in the sunny farm.
Codey: And I guess we can just talk about the catch mechanic now, because that's the 1st part.
Al: Yeah.
Al: I think I think the catch mechanic is really hard to explain without visuals, but if you play it, it's incredibly easy to pick up.
Al: So like when you, so you start off with a bunch of areas that you can, you can choose to search for a bug within your, your specific area and then you get this little screen where it shows you what you're trying to catch in a little bit and then it's got a bar with a line moving left to right on that bar and on that bar is some area that's red, some area that's blue and some that is green.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: And you have to time it so that you hit the green bit.
Al: If you hit the red, you fail to catch.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: If you hit the green you catch, and if you hit the blue, it does this thing where it's like we need to get a bit closer and it changes and you get more of the green area.
Al: Which, certainly with the 1st early, early game bugs doesn't really make much difference, but with some of the later game bugs, you kind of have to do the blue to actually get any amount of green that you can use to catch them.
Al: Um, I think it's an interesting one, it's obviously very live, right?
Al: Like it's, it's, you got to be good at timing and and that's, you know, I enjoyed it, but I can see what, that some people might have an issue with that, right?
Codey: Yeah.
Al: Like it's quite,
Al: I mean, I guess a lot of this game.
Al: You might be surprised if you just look at how it is, but a lot of this game, because the battles are the same.
Al: It's very much real time.
Al: And so if you're not good at the timing, then you might not be very...
Codey: Yes.
Codey: Yeah, there is an, you do have a, um, an item you can buy in the shop that is called is honey that slows the movement of the bar within the, uh, of the lines within the bar down.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: Um, and I'm wondering if there's something in the uh, settings that allow you to make it easier.
Codey: But, um, yeah, so it's, it's, and in depending on the rarity of the insect, the bars are smaller or more difficult to hit or whatever.
Al: And sometimes they move.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: Like sometimes they get bigger or smaller.
Codey: Um, what I like is they're all different.
Codey: So like for each insect, they are different.
Codey: Um, which was really cool because then you see, you're like, oh, this is one of the dragonflies, so it's going to be over on the ends of the bar or, oh, this is the mantis.
Codey: So there's like 3 different lines you can hit, like one that's blue and 2 that are green or something like that.
Codey: Um, And so I always would get the honey and then I would save it for the difficult ones.
Codey: Um, after you catch, after you've successfully caught.
Codey: So the areas that you can do, have 5 places you can search.
Codey: And I think at 1st you can search, you can choose 3 of those places.
Al: 22 to start with.
Codey: Okay, 22 of those places. And then as you upgrade one of your items, you can search more places.
Codey: I think the magnifying glass.
Codey: Um, And then eventually you can search all of the places.
Codey: So then you're just looking, you have the opportunity to catch 5 bugs at each site.
Codey: After you have collected them, they go into your collection that you can look at and you can see what their stats are.
Codey: So they do have uh, strength, defence, and I have no idea what the 3rd thing is. Um,
Al: I also have no idea.
Al: I'd spent the entire game not knowing what it was.
Al: I think.
Codey: Oh, energy maybe.
Al: I think it might be about how quickly you gain the energy for the cards.
Codey: That makes sense because it's, it's the letter N and then R and then G, which if you say that is energy.
Al: Possibly.
Al: Yeah.
Al: But I think, I think that's what, because that only came into play really at the end of the tournament where someone was actually changing how quickly they got that as well and I hadn't really noticed anything up to that point, but I think that's what it is.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: Um, yes, but and then each bug also comes with cards, um, that are the cards that you will be able to use during the battle.
Codey: Um...
Al: Yeah, and specifically those cards, they're they're for changing how the battle works, right?
Codey: Yes.
Al: So it's kind of like, it's kind of like a sumo battle where you're, you spend some time pushing to try and push the other team out of the ring and then you have some time where the other team is pushing and you have to hold as much as you can.
Al: So you have, there you go.
Codey: And it's, Sorry.
Codey: Uh, it's based on the strength and the defence of the 3 insects that you choose.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: To battle with.
Al: But then the cards, they can do things like increase your strength, increase your defence, or they can knock back the team, you can push them, um, depend, which I think is also affected by your strength, because I'd noticed that when you have a higher strength, the pushback pushes them back further, I'm pretty sure, although there are different levels of pushback as well.
Al: And then there's some other things as well.
Al: Like I mentioned, there's one that increases how quickly you gain the energy because each card has a certain amount, a certain value, and you gain energy over time, and then when you use one, it reduces from it.
Al: So there's like a bunch of other effects and stuff like that.
Codey: Mm.
Al: But the main ones would be increase, increase your defence or strength or reduce the other team's defence or strength or do the kickback.
Codey: Yes.
Codey: Um, you can favourite the insects so that you don't sell them on accident.
Codey: Um, you can sell them all for candy.
Codey: So I think that what they say, they say it on the map.
Codey: Um, So you can do the wildlife preservation.
Codey: So you can sell bugs to the Beatle Park staff. And you get candy.
Codey: Um, and that candy can then be used to uh, uh, level up your bugs.
Al: Yeah, which I find a very funny idea is like here bugs eat the eat the candy.
Al: You're going to grow up and be big and strong.
Codey: Well, that's in Pokemon Go, it's candy, right?
Al: Yeah, yeah, but these are like real bugs.
Al: I just love the idea of like feeding your live bugs candy to make them stronger.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: It's like, you're giving, you're giving your, uh, your praying mantas at sugar high.
Codey: Some of them.
Al: Also amused with the idea of like, yeah, you're you're trading bugs for candy, but then we're actually going to do battles and then get real money for winning battles.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: Yeah, get real money from the kids.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: Yep.
Al: Amusing.
Codey: Um, depending on, I think your one of your items, your bugpedia, maybe? I don't remember which one.
Codey: But depending on, sorry, depending on one of your items, you can level the max level is a certain.
Al: Well, depends what you're talking about.
Al: I think I think that's when you unlock new areas.
Codey: Okay.
Codey: Because like the max level at 1st you can only level them up to 10 and then you can level them up to like 15 and then 20 or something like that.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: Um, and so it's that there is that in that, like, if you're going to the same area and collecting all the bugs and then you've collected everything and you've gotten enough candy from selling duplicates to be able to level up all of your bugs to the top max level, then there might not be as much of a reason.
Codey: But there are some bugs that have benefits or like stars next to like their strength or their defence or their energy.
Codey: So, which I'm assuming are just like, this is really good for that.
Codey: So you can keep trying to catch bugs so that they have the best in as many of those categories as those stats as possible, but.
Al: Yeah.
Al: I think there's also just certain bugs are just stronger as well.
Codey: Um,
Codey: Yes.
Al: Right?
Al: Like the bees tend to be pretty weak and the Beatles tend to be the strongest.
Codey: Yeah, well, the Beatles have the best defence as well, I think.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: Because they just can can be defensive.
Al: Big boys.
Codey: Big buzzed.
Al: Big strong boy.
Codey: Um, also part way during the month, there's, uh, some bugs will be active in areas you've already, uh, completed, which I loved because that's very true that, like, just because you've gone to one place and you feel like you've caught everything there, you could go back a week later and you'll find new things.
Codey: Like that's in reality, that's what happens.
Codey: So I did really like that mechan- or that feature.
Codey: Um, I think that's collection.
Codey: Oh, and then the fact that some of them can be shown.
Al: Yes, let speaking of things that are realistic.
Al: At the end of August, the shinies are out.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: So then you can just catch, like, it's you're more likely to catch all of those things.
Al: Uh, so... absolutely not.
Codey: Finish your shiny decks.
Al: So I guess we should probably talk about the tournament as well then.
Codey: Yes.
Al: So you, for some reason, everyone's battling these bugs.
Al: It's like a big thing.
Codey: For for some reason, excuse me.
Codey: We're all catching bugs at summer camp.
Codey: Come on now.
Al: Yeah, but so what I'm not sure about is, is this a sanction, is the tournament a sanctioned activity then?
Codey: And then you got to compare your bugs.
Al: Because I didn't feel like it was.
Al: It felt like it was like we're going to do this outside of our normal activities, right?
Al: Like it's not, the leaders aren't like encouraging this.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: No, I don't think so.
Codey: I think it's very similar to like if all the kids brought their Pokemon cards and then every night you have a Pokemon battle.
Al: Yes, exactly, exactly.
Al: Do you know what I just noticed?
Al: I dont know if you've noticed this.
Al: Have you noticed what the ring is?
Codey: No.
Al: It's a tambourine.
Codey: Oh my gosh.
Al: I just noticed that the, the, there's the skin on top with the, the, the, the nails and then you've got the, the, um, simple, whatever they're called around the side.
Codey: So people just used, yeah.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: That's hilarious.
Al: It's just like someone's picked up a tambourine from a band and put it down.
Codey: This is like someone's tamboo and they're like, this is what our, our things are going to battle on.
Al: So you're doing your back alley fighting, uh, and um, there are, yeah, so there's 31 opponents and you have to uh, you have to beat them all to win the game, basically.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: You do one a day.
Al: Um, and they get harder as you go.
Codey: Yep.
Al: And I mean, I certainly didn't find it challenging to start with, but like though the last few battles I had to actually have some sort of strategy.
Al: Um, and basically the final battle, I had to have the same strategy as the person in the final battle to win, which uh, which was reduced the cost of knockbacks and then the card that adds more knockback cards into your hand.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: Yep.
Al: So you just end up knocking them back all the time.
Al: Because I could not.
Codey: Yep.
Al: I tried like 10 times to defeat them on 3 level 20s before I even bothered doing that.
Codey: Really?
Codey: Oh my gosh.
Codey: I never lost a battle.
Al: It was only that.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: It was only that that I lost.
Codey: She was pretty, I was, I was sweating that one for sure.
Codey: That one was uh, not fun.
Al: So did you manage that without doing the, the, the extra knockback card?
Codey: Um, I did, I think I had like 2 or 3 cards that I had to use.
Codey: For most of my battles, though.
Codey: I didn't even have to use a card.
Codey: My bugs were just like, get off the tambourine, basically.
Codey: They just shoved so hard.
Al: Let me guess then, you just spent most of your time catching as many bugs as possible and levelling off.
Codey: Yes.
Codey: I only ever played, like, I only ever battled after I levelled everything to the max level, like all of the bugs that I wanted to battle with.
Al: Makes sense.
Al: Okay, yeah, I see then.
Al: I see you then.
Codey: So all of my bugs were maxed.
Codey: Well, then because then it was like, oh, you have a 2 level 4 or 3 level 4 things.
Codey: That's cute.
Codey: Minor level 10.
Codey: Um, yeah.
Codey: So I guess I could play it again and not do that.
Codey: And then have to play the card game part of it.
Codey: Because I didn't, I really didn't have to do much with the cards, except for the last one.
Codey: Um, yeah, it's it's just soon.
Al: Yeah, fair.
Codey: Well, sumo slash, I also think of like tug of war or whatever, how you have to tug something over a line.
Al: Yeah, I mean, it's the opposite of that.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: Um, so you're trying to push them off and then you, you push your opponent off or they push you off and then, uh, you get money and then it, if you win, you get money and it progresses to the next day.
Al: Yeah.
Al: And that's how you get more...
Al: By both, buying the boots to go to other areas, uh, buying the bug journal to make it easy, more likely to see rarer bugs and obviously some of them.
Al: Like half the month.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: But that.
Al: Yeah, I think it's, I think it's really fun.
Al: I think it's a really nicely balanced game.
Al: It's fun.
Al: The graphics are really nice, kind of fun, whimsical drawing.
Al: The.
Al: I mean, a lot of the characters are pretty generic, but there were some that felt a little bit more pretty sure one of them was hitting on me, which is a little bit weird when their kids.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: One of them was named Ash.
Codey: So like they're, they are not, I mean, there were multiple things where I was like, oh, they're, they're aware that they are, that they're Pokemon basically knockoffs or whatever, but like still very good.
Al: Oh I missed that.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: Yeah, one of them was named Ash.
Codey: I think a couple of the other ones had some really silly names, but I can't remember them off the top of my head, but it was good.
Codey: There's definitely one hitting.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: I mean, it's a, you are a kid and their kids.
Codey: You've never had a childhood crush that you hit on as a as an elementary school student.
Al: I'm not saying I haven't.
Al: But I'm an adult playing this game.
Al: That's that's all, you know, it just, like, I think also the thing is it also felt like they pushed it a little bit further.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: It was like the 1st time it was like, oh, okay, yeah, sure, fine.
Al: That's that's cute, whatever.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: And then the other one was like, oh, yeah, you really are cute.
Codey: No, yeah, she was right.
Al: Boy.
Codey: Like...
Codey: Yeah.
Al: One thing I'm confused about, and this has nothing to do with the game.
Al: Um, see on Game Pass.
Codey: Okay.
Al: How can you view the achievements you don't have?
Codey: I don't know.
Al: Because I can only see the achievements I do have, and apparently there's 3 I'm missing.
Codey: Are you doing this with, uh,
Al: The Xbox app.
Codey: Oh, an app.
Al: Just the Xbox, the, well, how do you run your Game Pass game?
Codey: On my one, my Xbox one.
Al: Okay, I mean, that, okay, fine.
Codey: Or Xbox S maybe?
Codey: I don't remember what it is, but.
Al: It doesn't that doesn't matter.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: Because it shows me, I've got 18 out of 21 and I can see all the ones I've already got, but there's no like ones you don't have list.
Codey: Is there?
Al: Oh, there they are.
Al: I found them.
Al: I found them. Win a battle with fewer bugs than your opponent.
Codey: Oh, dang.
Al: Do a really strong knockback.
Al: Did I not do that?
Al: And win a battle with 3 of the same bug in your team?
Al: Those 2 will be pretty easy because uh...
Codey: I didn't even think about achievements.
Codey: I could totally.
Codey: Like it would be fun to get the achievements again.
Codey: Oh, I love how they say in the thing, expect 2 to 4 hours of serene bug catching, exciting battles and summer vibes.
Codey: Can confirm.
Al: Yeah, yeah, no lies there.
Codey: Like I'd, I'd be down to, yeah, like this is a game.
Codey: dip back into at some point.
Codey: Um, just to relive it.
Al: It does feel like this, this is not going to be for me because it's not my sort of thing replaying, but I could absolutely see someone uh, trying to, you know, speed run it or try and be the most efficient they can, something like that I could do.
Codey: Oh yeah.
Codey: Cool, any final thoughts on the game? or who would you recommend it to?
Al: I mean, if you like creature collectors, this is a good creature collector, right?
Codey: Yep.
Al: Like the, I don't think there's much more to be said about that.
Codey: You like bugs or like supporting small developers that make very affordable games?
Codey: Very cute, very good.
Codey: Very worth.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: I enjoyed it as an entomologist.
Codey: Uh, it was very nothing was like too like wild where I was like, this is not realistic.
Al: Agreed.
Codey: Um, and I like the choice of bugs that they, the variety they provided.
Codey: So, ooh, kabuto park.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Cool.
Al: Woo.
Codey: Al, do you have anything to share with the audience?
Al: Bugs.
Codey: Ughs.
Codey: Okay, cool.
Codey: Um, yeah, pretty much the same.
Codey: Uh, you can find the podcast on Tumblr and Blue Sky at THS pod.
Codey: You can find all of our feedbacks and links to the show notes and transcripts and all of that at harvestseason.club.
Codey: There you will also find a link to the Patreon, Patreon.com slash JHS pod, where you can support the show.
Codey: Uh, ask for certain episodes or bully Al into doing certain games like I have done.
Codey: Um, and ask other questions.
Codey: We also just have really good conversations about previous episodes.
Codey: You also get access to the greenhouse, where we talk about non-cozy game stuff.
Codey: Um, we have multiple greenhouses that need to be done right now that I have lined up.
Codey: Uh, We just don't.
Al: Don't we always?
Codey: Yeah, we just don't like haven't made the time, I guess, is the big thing.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: Um, but if you have any suggestions for greenhouse episodes, let us know, because some of them could be done very easily and very quickly versus some other ones like, like I want to do one on Little House of the Prairie, but I kind of want to finish Little House of the Prairie 1st so that I can talk about it in a more informed state.
Codey: Um, there's also one on Bluey.
Codey: I feel like I want to rewatch all of Bluey before we have the Bluey episode.
Al: I think I've watched it enough.
Codey: I've only done one watch through, so I feel like I need it.
Al: I think I'm up for watches of it.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: Craig really likes Bluey, so every so often we rewatch everything again.
Codey: Good.
Codey: Lou is great.
Codey: Good, good, good choice, Craig.
Codey: Well, thank you, Al, for joining me for the 1st episode of Bug Month.
Al: Thank you for having me, Cody.
Codey: Yes, of course.
Codey: Thank you listeners for listening, and until next time.
Al: Have a good harvest.
Codey: Have a good harvest.
Codey: Have a good, good catch bug.
Al: Bug bug your catches.
Theme Tune: The harvest season is created by Al McKinley with support from our patrons, including our pro farmers, Kevin Stewart and Elisa.
Theme Tune: Our art is done by Mike the Brave, and our music is done by Nick Burgess.
Theme Tune: Feel free to visit our website, harvestseason.club for show notes and links to things we discussed in this episode.
Codey: I am on time dot is.
Al: Yep, I'm up.
Codey: One Mississippi 2 okay.
Al: It literally was.